The thing that I love about Superman is,
no matter how dark or cynical
the world gets,
he always is hopeful
and heroic and optimistic.
He's a blue sky superhero.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
He's a man who could do anything,
and he's choosing to fight for us.
When Superman wins the day,
you feel like you won the day.
I think every major creator
at some point
wants to tell a Superman story.
♪ ♪
"Krypton" to me is such a vibrant idea
because there's so little
that's been explored.
To be a part of something
that's just got
such a massive legacy to it,
it's very surreal.
♪ ♪
Synced & corrected by kinglouisxx
www.addic7ed.com
Hi, I'm Cameron Cuffe
from the new show "Krypton,"
and right now, I'm in Belfast,
standing on our version
of the Fortress of Solitude.
It's the 80th anniversary of Superman
and the origin of Krypton,
and as an actor and fan,
I couldn't be more excited to
be part of this next chapter.
♪ ♪
One of the things that I wanted to do
with "Man of Steel" was to emphasize
the fact that Superman was an alien,
and so I fought very hard
to have an opening segment
take place on Krypton
and to depict it as a truly alien world.
So while I was working on that film,
I thought a lot about
how we could take things further,
and I approached Geoff Johns.
It really started with a conversation
when David came to me and said,
"Hey, I think I have an idea
about a story on Krypton,"
how the House of El became this symbol
of hope and optimism.
It's about this character, Seg,
who's the grandfather of Superman,
and it would take place
about 200 years before
Superman comes to Earth.
Superman came from
a very sophisticated world.
They were very advanced,
but at the same time,
beyond this sort of veneer of harmony,
there was corruption.
There was Machiavellian
politics going on.
I think it's something that speaks to us
in our world today.
I think that's the big draw
to "Krypton,"
to dive deeply into what Krypton is.
What was it like
before Superman, as a baby,
left that world
and the world was destroyed?
[MELANCHOLY PIANO MUSIC]
The Krypton of our show
is a planet that is late
in its life cycle,
and resources are so limited
that there are only
a certain amount of people
that the government seems to care about.
The society's divided by class.
It's a theocracy.
There's an authoritarian,
religious ruler.
Rao's blessings are bountiful
but not unlimited.
Only his wrath is.
Seg is a son of the House of El,
which has had its once proud legacy
ripped from them
when Seg's grandfather, Val-El,
commits heresy by saying
that there is something out there
other than Kryptonians.
For rebelling against
the lawful authority
of the Holy Sovereignty of His Eminence,
you are hereby sentenced to death!
When we pick up our story,
the House of El has been maligned.
The Superman symbol is a mark of shame.
Your family will be stripped
of all rights and privileges!
You are now to be considered rankless!
He grows up rankless
in the rankless district,
which is this crevasse
at the bottom of the city
where people are just sort of piled in
on top of each other.
It's a dog-eat-dog world.
- Move along.
- Hey!
His mind's not right anymore.
Seg's a good kid,
who's very angry at the world.
[GRUNTING]
♪ ♪
We didn't want to start Seg
as the finished package.
You know, we didn't want him
to be Superman.
We didn't want him to have all of those
core values in place
right from the start.
We wanted that to be the journey,
and we wanted that to be a progression.
What the hell were you thinking, Seg?
Are you gonna uncuff me or what?
I like you this way.
Even though
"Krypton's" very much a story
about the House of El
and the El lineage,
it's also a story about the House of Zod
and the Zod lineage.
Lyta, you are my daughter,
and you are a Zod,
and Zods are not traitors.
Lyta Zod, she's part
of the Military guild.
She has this relationship with Seg,
which is not allowed.
She shouldn't be going near a rankless.
So much in our lives we can't control.
But we still get to define ourselves.
Seg is someone that she can speak to.
They're really in love, and they have
this really passionate relationship,
but they know that it's never gonna last
because they're both bound
to different people.
He's bound to Nyssa.
Nyssa here is yet to
be paired with someone.
As my youngest daughter,
you'll be binding with her.
She's the woman that Seg is bound to.
They don't call it marriage,
they call it a binding.
He takes an immediate disliking
to Nyssa, and she to him.
If my father binds you to us,
he is taming you.
Proving that even a dreaded El
can be co-opted
and brought into the fold.
Nyssa-Vex is a junior magistrate
of the Lawmaker's guild.
I think a lot of Nyssa's relationships
are built on an agenda,
and Nyssa sees Seg as a commodity.
Have your secrets, Seg.
I most certainly have mine.
Seg early on in the story
receives a call to action,
and this call reminds him
of the great legacy
of his house, of the acts of courage
and selflessness that are so incredible
that they resound through history,
but here's the kicker:
they also resound in the future.
[GRUNTS]
Don't even think about it.
This stranger shows up,
says, "I'm from the future.
"I'm from a planet called Earth.
"My name is Adam Strange,
and I need your help to save Krypton."
Someone from the future
has come to destroy Krypton.
Why would they do that?
Because where I'm from,
your grandson becomes
the greatest hero in the universe.
No one on Krypton, including Seg,
has any awareness of Superman
or even Earth at this point,
so Adam is the audience's proxy.
Once this cape is gone, our time's up.
Superman will have been wiped
from existence.
Because he is a time traveler,
he shows that the show
is not just a prequel.
It's a story that is indelibly
linked to the present,
so the events that happen in our show
could change Krypton's ultimate fate.
[BOY YELLS]
This thing that's coming,
it moves... from planet to planet,
conquering civilizations.
Its true name is Brainiac.
Superman was created out of nothing.
There were no superheroes.
Superman has been through
everything you can think of.
There's a reason why
Superman still persists.
So, here we are in the Genesis Chamber,
and the cool thing
about the Genesis Chamber
is that it's actually
a relatively new part
of the lore introduced in 2014's
"Man of Steel."
And the amazing thing to me as a fan
is that even though this franchise
has been going on for 80 years,
the world of Krypton is so rich
that there's really no end
to the creative
and storytelling possibilities.
There's a lot of characters
that have been introduced
from 1938 to now,
and a lot of them have been forgotten,
but there's a reason why
Superman still persists.
Superman was created out of nothing.
There were no superheroes.
There was just Jerry Siegel
and Joe Shuster
in Cleveland, Ohio,
creating an alien character
called Superman.
In 1938, in short,
the world had never been
a scarier or more unjust place.
And at that time,
the world's first superhero
appeared on bookshelves.
I don't think it's a coincidence
that this guy became popular.
♪ ♪
He's always that shining
beacon of goodness and courage.
Truth, justice, and the American way...
I mean, these are,
like, spiritual ideas.
These are ideas you can build
a religion around.
Here we have an alien
among us in Superman
who represents the highest
and best qualities
of what we like to think of as humanity.
Why has Superman endured for so long?
It's because those themes are undying,
and so is he.
Superman has been through
just about everything
you can think of... 52 universes,
evil versions of himself,
bizarro versions of himself.
He died, very famously.
Superman kind of is so well known
and so well documented... in animation,
in film, in television,
in comics.
First connection I had
to Superman growing up
was the day I read
my first "Superman" comic.
It kind of taught you
you could do almost anything you wanted.
If he could, why couldn't I?
My very first connection
was the Max and Dave Fleischer
"Superman" cartoons
that I saw when I was very, very young.
They were done on a really
elaborate scale for cartoons.
They were very realistic
and very cinematic.
I am and always will be a fan
of the original TV series,
"Adventures of Superman,"
with George Reeves, 'cause that's what
I grew up with as a kid.
Your aim is bad, Luigi.
The first Superman movie
with Christopher Reeve
really embraced
the Superman I grew up with.
I read the script, and quite honestly,
it was missing the humanity,
its sense of reality.
I decided to do it
if they'd let me do a rewrite,
and the reason I would do it
was to protect Superman.
It played a huge part
in my imaginative life.
I actually have a scar
on my chin right here.
I jumped off the couch with a cape
that said "Superkid" on it,
and I fell on my face.
For me, I grew up in the time
of the great "Animated Series."
I'm a huge "Animated Series" fan.
I really like the Bruce Timm
designs of Superman.
Those angular characters
are, I think, very unique.
One of the things
that we decided to do early on
both to humanize Superman and also
to kind of make the stories
a little bit more interesting
is we did make him
a little bit more vulnerable.
I love the "Smallville"
version of Superman.
I think Tom Welling
did a really good job
portraying Superman's innocence
and the tension in him.
I think every major creator
at some point
wants to tackle
and tell a Superman story.
It's an American fable.
It's American history.
Everybody wants to take a crack at it.
As a Superman fan,
there's no greater feeling
than getting the chance to contribute
something, anything, to the legacy
of the character.
You know you're standing
on the shoulders of giants
that preceded you, so there is
pressure to get it right
and to tell a great story.
Once you open the comics,
you realize how deep
the storytelling is,
how much of it is based on
the connections between people.
I think the greatest
Superman moment of all time
is five panels in Grant Morrison's
"All-Star Superman."
There is a woman on a ledge
who's about to step off,
and a strong voice
behind her says,
"You are so much stronger
than you think you are."
At heart, they are
really sort of simple stories.
You know, Superman is
the immigrant that comes here
and sees the best in us.
Different writers bring their passions,
and, as you go through the decades,
you see different social
justice issues being raised.
A good writer is looking
at everything around him
and looks at society and sees,
"What can you address?"
We live in a society now where truth,
justice, and the American way,
these ideas are actually under siege.
Looking at the world we live in
and Superman's place in it,
you realize that he's exactly
the hero we need right now.
Boy, do we need Superman.
The great thing about
the Superman universe
is the breadth of it.
Because Superman is
a science fiction character,
ultimately, the whole universe is open,
so he's connected to things
across time travel,
the future, the past,
through space travel,
as well as to Earth and Krypton.
Well, I think it's gonna be
really interesting to see
the backstory of Superman's family.
I mean, we basically know the story
of Superman's parents fairly well,
but the idea that there
are family histories
that extend beyond that I think is one
that's rich for development.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
Where we're standing right now
is the DC Comics archive.
Pretty much every single issue
DC Comics published,
it's here in this room.
Hey, guys, I got the incredible
opportunity to come visit DC Comics,
check out their archive, and learn more
about the incredible history
of DC Comics, Superman,
and the world of Krypton.
Let's go check it out.
Where we're standing right now
is the doorway to the DC Comics archive.
It's one of the most special places
in all of comic history.
Pretty much every single issue
that DC Comics has published from 1938
to whatever came out last week,
it's here in this room.
We have the most important
comic book ever made.
It's this one right here.
It's "Action Comics" #1.
It's the landmark issue
which creates the genre of superheroes
by having Superman in it.
It is the birth
of the golden age of comics,
and that's where Krypton starts,
when the rocket ship takes off.
Everyone that's kind of
touched Superman,
from the radio play to the movies
to the comic books,
has added to his mythology
and expanded what he can do.
All of superheroes come from this comic.
So this is the first panel ever.
So as a lifelong fan,
holding onto this comic book
means everything to me.
He's the kind of character
that, the more you dig into him,
the more you're impressed
that he's doing what he does
and the way he does what he does.
Some of my favorite versions
of Krypton really imagine it
as a place that I think
that was like us.
No matter how kind of wondrous
civilization gets,
you realize that they still have
some of the same
kind of deep-rooted conflicts
that we have now.
It seems to me like they had, you know,
the idea of Krypton,
and Superman comes from him,
but it wasn't until a little bit later,
they actually came back to it.
I mean, it's such a fertile ground
for really rich stories,
and you can't start the story
without all of this.
And actually, I believe
I have a map of Krypton
in case you get lost.
I don't know what it looks like
on the show,
but the Rainbow Cavern should be here.
The Volcano of Gold.
And I could tell you right now,
some of these places
feature in the show.
I'm not gonna tell you which ones.
- That's fantastic.
- You have to watch.
The great thing about Superman
is that it's got a mythological basis
that everybody knows, and, from that,
you can tell a variety of stories.
It's fascinating how
the first interpretations
of Superman were a much more
rough-and-tumble hero.
- Yeah.
- And he wasn't necessarily
going after mad scientists.
He was much more street justice.
- Right.
- Which is something
we've brought to our show.
The mythology has expanded so much,
and for us, as well,
it's a science fiction show,
so it all has to make sense.
This is "Action Comics" 236 to 247,
and it's here
for a very important reason.
- Brainiac.
Brainiac is this thing that comes here
and then captures us and says,
"You're just this tiny, small thing,
"and you're never going to be important,
"you're never going to be big,
and so let me bottle you up
and take you away."
Brainiac's history
was already tied to Krypton
even before Superman came to Earth.
Famously, Brainiac came
to Krypton in the past
and devastated Kandor.
He stole the entire city
and shrunk it down
into this globe on his ship,
and so it made absolute sense
that he would be our big bad.
One of my favorite
interpretations of Brainiac
throughout the years is the run
that Geoff and Gary Frank did
with incredible art
and really, in a way, brought Brainiac
back into Superman continuity
and made him who he is,
this incredible green being.
And it's interesting to me as well,
the way Brainiac has always
been used as well
is for a way for Superman to reexamine
what it means to be human.
Gary Frank, the artist, and I
really decided to take a run
at making him threatening
in a, I guess, more horrific way
and would go around to these places
and digitize cultures and destroy it
and just collect it,
and that version of Brainiac
did heavily influence
what we're doing in the show.
It's not just gonna stop at Krypton.
It is coming for everything.
It's known as the collector of worlds.
Here we are in one of
our oldest bound issues.
There's "Showcase" #17. Adam Strange.
Adam Strange was really
the closest thing we had
to a straight science fiction
comic book,
and he transported from here
to his home planet
and had various adventures.
I come from a planet called Earth,
a time centuries from now,
and I've come here to warn you.
The origin of Adam Strange
is almost like
a reversal of the Superman origin.
Strange came from Earth and ended up
on a strange planet
that he became the hero of.
Adam Strange should be
our cue to the audience
that this is more than just
about the Superman mythology.
If you know comic books,
Doomsday's origins happen on Krypton,
and we'll be wrapping Doomsday
into the story.
There's a item called the Black Mercy
that shows up in the pilot,
and that's related
to a character named Mongul
that we hope to bring in.
There's a world in the comics
called Thanagar
where Hawkman and Hawkwoman are from,
and they're going to be wrapped up
in the story as well.
So Adam Strange is sort of
the gateway to all
the space-related characters
in the DC universe.
♪ ♪
When you step on set,
you just feel immersed
in this world of mythology.
The Fortress set has been the one
that we have agonized over the most.
So, here we are in the tribunal chamber,
and as you can see,
the legacy of Krypton
and Superman,
it's literally all around us.
The production has gone to great lengths
to mine even the most minute details
from the franchise's deep history,
and this is to ensure
that the world we create
is not only paying tribute
to what's come before
but is also completely,
uniquely our own.
This show is just, like,
a really pure form of escapism.
You get to see these really
creative, exciting worlds
that are different than your own.
DC have done a fantastic job
of allowing creators and artists
to go their own direction.
And David Goyer, using the framework
of the DC universe, has crafted
this beautifully deep society for us.
Strange to think our ancestors
used to carry children in their wombs.
Because it's a truly alien world
and an alien culture,
the design time was almost double
that you would normally have for a show.
The amazing thing
about all of these sets
is they are epic in scale
but down to the fine detail,
and that was by design
because we are telling
an immersive cinematic story.
If you're so clever,
how come you're on
the stupid end of this blaster?
Being on these sets,
you don't even need to try
and get into character.
You just feel immersed
in this world of mythology.
This fortress, it's why they killed
Grandfather, isn't it?
The Fortress set has been the one
that we have agonized over the most.
Does this really belong to my grandson?
Yeah.
We learn in the course of the show
that the Fortress of Solitude
actually had its origins
on Krypton and it was Val-El's
secret scientific base.
Tell me about Brainiac.
Help me find a way to stop him.
I think Superman fans
have been dying to see
Brainiac done justice on screen
the way he deserves.
And we're doing our utmost
to deliver that.
Your world is at an end.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
There's a lot of expectations.
There's lots of fans.
There's lots of people that are
very passionate about Superman,
and it does feel like
it's a big responsibility.
Val-El was right!
Enough!
We've never actually seen
what the El family
stands for in their own society
in the context of their world.
It's time you learn the truth.
And you had to steal a skimmer for that?
♪ ♪
To have the freedom
to make an entire TV series
about Krypton is just really exciting.
You're walking on untouched soil.
♪ ♪
I think what people
are interested in knowing
is the background of Superman's family
and what's in his DNA that led him
to become the person that he is.
The amazing thing about our show
is that we get to take bits that we like
from the comics, from the TV shows,
from the movies,
and smash them all together,
as well as adding our own stuff
and moving forward with a new story.
People genuinely have no idea
what is about to come their way.
♪ ♪
Welcome to your grandfather's
Fortress of Solitude.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
♪ ♪
Go on.
Try it.
[DISTANT CLANGING]
As a lifelong fan of this world,
I feel so lucky to be
a part of "Krypton."
To contribute to the legend of Superman,
it's a humbling and awesome experience,
and I can't wait to share
what we've come up with.
My own personal Kryptonite? Oh, my God.
I would say my Kryptonite is heights.
- Red onion.
- Time.
- Deadlines.
- LEGOs.
I have stepped on so many LEGOs.
I don't have a good answer.
Haircuts? I don't know
if that makes any sense.
My Kryptonite is carbs.
- Probably Hostess, I think.
- Injustice.
I'm probably my own personal Kryptonite.